# Stage 3 - Search Sccreen and Network Request

## Themes

- Futures, actual HTTP Requests and parsing JSON in Dart
- Screens and Basic Navigation
- Fancy Buttons
- UI Shenanigans - State-baseed rendering, animations and padding

<br/>

---

## Futures, actual HTTP Requests and parsing JSON in Dart

Now that we're into actual HTTP request territory, there are a few concepts we need to get across:

- The `async` and `await` keywords in Dart, along with their very important companion, the [`Future`](https://api.dart.dev/stable/2.13.4/dart-async/Future-class.html) class.

A `Future` represents a potential value or error that will be available sometime in the future (ha). If you're familiar with JavaScript, you'll be aware of their counterpart [Promises](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise), and if youre a .NET dev at heart you're covered in this realm by the [`Task`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.threading.tasks.task?view=net-5.0) class.

The `http` library is fairly straightforward to set up, and provides several http-operation-wrapped helper methods (ie. `get`, `post`, `put` etc) to get you up and running in no time. If you want more control over the underlying request you can also use the [Request](https://pub.dev/documentation/http/latest/http/Request-class.html) class. These methods all accept a [`Map<String,String>`](https://api.dart.dev/stable/2.13.4/dart-core/Map-class.html) (the `Map` class being a key-value-pair class) object that represents headers you can define on the fly.

Parsing responses in Dart can be a little tricky, as Dart [lacks reflection](https://flutter.dev/docs/development/data-and-backend/json#is-there-a-gsonjacksonmoshi-equivalent-in-flutter) in the way that most people currently know it. For smaller projects (and this workshop), we'll be doing manual deserialization.

Flutter has a neat concept called [`Factory Constructors`](https://dart.dev/guides/language/language-tour#factory-constructors) that you can leverage to help this.

<br/>

---

## Screens and Basic Navigation

Navigation in Flutter can be defined in two ways;

1. Extract the arguments at the `build` time of your Widget
2. Using the [`onGenerateRoute`](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/WidgetsApp/onGenerateRoute.html) property on the `MaterialApp` class defined in the `main.dart` entry point.

I prefer the second approach personally because I can define all my routes and route handling in one place, splitting it into its own function, whereas the first method means you need to scatter the argument processing throughout the Widgets of your application. It is also much easier to detect when you've got an unhandled route, as you can design your `onGenerateRoute` function to throw an Exception if you have an unmatched route.

This implementation is doing _very_ basic routing for now. In the next Workstop Stage (`4. Better Nav Experience`), we'll clean this up a bit :)

<br/>

---

## Fancy Buttons

Now we're introducing our `FancyButton` class! This button is a Stateless Widget that uses a `FancyButtonController` pattern (for lack of a better term?), to pass state and actions between the Widget and show a nice Progress Indicator while its doing things.

I _really_ dont like this implementation, originally taken from [this](https://flutter.dev/docs/cookbook/effects/download-button) cookbook recipe. I'm not sure we actually need the `FancyButtonController` class to coordinate what looks like a poor rip-off of proper State Management, but I've left it in because I think its interesting to see the journey I've taken, and how I improve this as time goes on.

There is also a [known issue](../README.md#known-issues-lol-because-of-course-there-are) where the progress bar spinner doesnt work, and it looks like it blocks the UI thread. I have absolutely no idea why, but I suspect I could nuke the controller class and move it to a completely normal Stateful Widget. Maybe.

Its also possible you could use a [`FutureBuilder`](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/FutureBuilder-class.html) to render this a little smarter. Stretch goals!

If you want to forget this, and just ye olde normal buttons, go for it. In the interests of time, its probably a good idea anyway! Originally I was using a [Floating Action Button](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/FloatingActionButton-class.html) before I discovered that cookbook recipe.
<br/>

---

## UI Shenanigans - Conditional rendering, animations and padding

Much like React, its possible to do conditional rendering when building a Widget. You can do ternary statements to resolve single values, or more expanded `if`-based conditionals to add/remove children to your Widgets as the Widget changes state (or inputs) over time.

Here is an example:

```
Widget _buildDownloadingProgress() {
  return Positioned.fill(
      child: AnimatedOpacity(
          duration: transitionDuration,
          opacity: _inProgress ? 1.0 : 0.0,
          curve: Curves.ease,
          child: Stack(
            alignment: Alignment.center,
            children: [
              _buildProgressIndicator(),
              if (_inProgress)
                const Icon(Icons.stop,
                    size: 14.0, color: CupertinoColors.activeBlue)
            ],
          )));
}
```

Here, we're setting the `opacity` property of the [`AnimatedOpacity`](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/AnimatedOpacity-class.html) class based on the `_inProgress` field.

Then, within our [Stack](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Stack-class.html), we're rendereing a Stop icon if the operation of our `FancyButton` is currently in progress.

Next, we've got [Padding](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Padding-class.html), which (like everything else in Flutter) has its own Widget. Padding gets defined as a container Widget, with the padding being applied to the `child` that is set. `Padding` uses its own special way of defining the values, using another class called [`EdgeInsets`](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/painting/EdgeInsets-class.html), which has helper methods to define symmetrical paddings, equal paddings and single paddings.

<br/>

---

## Workshop Steps

> Note: This commit is a bit rougher, so a lot of the code you'll see here is garbage. Feel free to make it Less Terrible™ when you do your own! There are many, many, _many_ ways to improve this. Go wild ❤️

0. If you're on Android, make sure you set up the `uses-permission` entry for Internet use in your `../yoloApp/android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml` file.
   - This entry goes in the activity: `<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />`
1. Define your `Search` screen, and create a `SearchForm` Stateful Widget that renders a Title, an input field, and a `FancyButton` and invokes the API defined in our `SEARCH_API` environment variable.
   - Dont forget you'll need a `FancyButtonController` to go with this too! If you want hints to get you started have a look [here](https://flutter.dev/docs/cookbook/effects/download-button), or take a peek at the solution below.
2. Parse our response into a `TrackerApiResponse` object
3. Log the response into the console.

## Solution

This diff for this stage is pretty big, so rather than put it all here, I'd recommend just using the following git command:

> `git diff 007021b 30cc4d8`

This will give you a rough idea of the direction to head in. If you run into issues, sing out!
