# Stage 5 - Add our (completely unnecessary lol) separate search results page!

## Themes

- Images, and rendering an image from the Internet
- Introduction to ListViews

<br/>

---

## Images, and rendering an image from the Internet

The [Image](https://flutter.dev/docs/cookbook/images/network-image) Widget is the primary class responsible for Image handling in Flutter. It also provides a handy `network` method, which accepts a URL, and will download image and render it on screen.

You can also use cached images and placeholders while the Image is rendering, however we wont be looking at these for this workshop.

<br/>

---

## Introduction to ListViews

The [ListView](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/ListView-class.html) Widget can use several helper callbacks to build items, separators (between the items) for a given ListView.

There is considerable flexibility in how you build items within these ListViews, as because everything in Flutter is a Widget you can go very deep down the rabbit hole.

The [ListTile](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/material/ListTile-class.html) (as an item of a `ListView` in this context) provides some useful properties;

- `leading`: You can use this to render an image/icon on the left-side of the item
- `title`: The title text of the item
- `subtitle`: An area to place subtext
- `trailing`: This is similar to `leading`, providing the ability to render an image or an icon, or a button! Endless possibilities.

<br/>

---

## Workshop Steps

1. Change the `SearchResults` class to render and build a `ListView` that displays the results of what is passed into the `results` property.
2. In the ListView:
   - Render the user's avatar in the `leading` property
   - Render a button in the `trailing` property, which will print the `platformUserHandle` in the debug console.

<br/>

---

## Solution

This was another extremely large diff, due to my changes to the Excalidraw file, so run the following to see the proper diff:

> `git diff 8f3f3ee febed85`

<br/>

---
